Quick start information
=======================

One of the easiest ways to get started is to try out ``examples/SerialGridSearch.Double.py``.  This example estimates the focal mechanism of an event from Silwal2016, using data included within the MTUQ repository. 

Before running the example, users must install MTUQ following these instructions.  The first time the example runs, Green's functions will be downloaded, which can take several minutes.  Any subsequent runs will be much faster.


Parallel examples
-----------------

As the filename suggests,  ``SerialGridSearch.Double.py`` runs as a single process.  All the other scripts in ``examples/`` use MPI parallelization (and so run much faster than the serial example).  

To see if MPI executables and libraries are present in your environment, start by checking if `mpirun` is on the system path.  If necessary, ask a system administrator for assistance configuring MPI.



Modifying the examples
----------------------

To obtain moment tensor estimates for events other than the Silwal2016 event, users can download waveforms using PySEP (github.com/uafgeotools/pysep) and modify the examples as follows:

- Change `path_data` to the new PySEP download directory

- Change `path_weights` to the new weight file included in the PySEP download

- Optionally, adjust the Earth model, data processing and misfit settings.  (Default choices match Silwal2016.)

 Change `origin` and `magnitude` to desired values for the new event. (Alternatively, if you which to include these variables as search parameters, create lists of origins and magnitudes at the desired spacing.)



References
----------

[Silwal2016] Vipul Silwal and Carl Tape (2016), Seismic moment tensors and
estimated uncertainties in southern Alaska, JGR, https://doi.org/10.1002/2015JB012588









Additional information
======================

`Quick start information`

`Learning Python and ObsPy <chapters/learning_python.html>`_

`Acquiring seismic data`

`Acquiring Green's functions`

`Processing data`

`Misfit evaluation`

