
Green's functions
=================

This page explains how Green's functions are used in source inversions.   It describes the types of Green's functions supported by MTUQ and how Green's functions can be acquired.



Role of Green's functions in source inversions
----------------------------------------------

The response of a medium to an impulsive source is called a Green's function.  

One reason Green's functions are useful is that the wavefield from a more complicated source can be obtained just by summing them.  

Another reason Green's functions are useful is that they provide computaional savings in inversions.  When more than a handful of sources are involved, it is cheaper to obtain medium responses by summing Green's functions than it is to perform many individual wavefield simulations.

In MTUQ, `GreensTensor` objects provide access to the full set of Green's functions needed to describe the medium response between a given station and origin.  



Green's function conventions
----------------------------

A variety of Green's function conventions exist in seismology.  Figuring out which are used by a particular author can be challenging because it depends on

- the type of medium under consideration (for example, acoustic media require fewer independent Green's functions than elastic media)

- local Cartesian basis conventions (for example, some authors employ "Up-South-East", others "North-East-Down"; see here for more information)

One of the major design goals of MTUQ is to avoid exposing users to unnecessary basis convention complexity. MTUQ accomplishes this by understanding external formats and converting to a common internal format that works for both one-dimensional and three-dimensional media. For local Cartesian representations, MTUQ consistently uses an 'Up-South-East' convention.



Downloading precomputed Green's functions
-----------------------------------------

In many cases, the easiest way to acquire Green's functions is to download them.  A webservice called syngine makes precomputed Green's functions available for a number of one-dimensional Earth models, including PREM, AK135, and iasp91.



Computing Green's function databases
------------------------------------

For one-dimensional models, two software packages can be used to compute Green's functions: (1) AxiSEM (preferred), which uses a spherical mesh, making it easy to represent the internal discontinuities of the deep Earth, (2) FK, which uses a Cartesian mesh.

Unlike syngine, which downloads Green's functions only for particular stations, AxiSEM and FK saves  the wavefield over the entire simulation domain, which makes it easy to search over hypocenter and depth parameters.

For three-dimensional models, SPECFEM3D can be used to compute Green's functions. SPECFEM3D output must be saved at individual stations using the CMT3D filename convention.  Currently, SPECFEM3D does not provide an adequate file format for saving entire wavefields.

